A children's story that can only be enjoyed by children is not a good children's story in the slightest. - Of Other Worlds

A man can no more diminish God's glory by refusing to worship Him than a lunatic can put out the sun by scribbling the word 'darkness' on the walls of his cell. - The Four Loves

Aim at Heaven and you will get earth "thrown in": aim at earth and you will get neither. - Mere Christianity

All get what they want; they do not always like it. - The Magician's Nephew

All mortals tend to turn into the thing they are pretending to be. - The Screwtape Letters

All that is not eternal is eternally out of date. - The Four Loves

Christ says, "Give me All. I don't want so much of your time and so much of your money and so much of your work: I want You." - Mere Christianity

Christianity, if false, is of no importance, and if true, of infinite importance. The only thing it cannot be is moderately important. - God in the Dock

Courage is not simply one of the virtues, but the form of every virtue at the testing point. - The Screwtape Letters

Everyone who believes in God at all believes that He knows what you and I are going to do tomorrow. - Mere Christianity

Faith is the art of holding on to things your reason has once accepted, in spite of your changing moods. - Mere Christianity

For the Present is the point at which time touches eternity. - The Screwtape Letters

Friendship is unnecessary, like philosophy, like art. It has no survival value; rather it is one of those things which give value to survival. - The Four Loves

God cannot give us a happiness and peace apart from Himself, because it is not there. There is no such thing. - Mere Christianity

God whispers to us in our pleasures, speaks in our conscience, but shouts in our pains: it is His megaphone to rouse a deaf world. - The Problem of Pain

Has this world been so kind to you that you should leave with regret? There are better things ahead than any we leave behind. - Letters of C.S. Lewis

Humans are amphibians—half spirit and half animal. As spirits they belong to the eternal world, but as animals they inhabit time. - The Screwtape Letters

I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen: not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else. - Is Theology Poetry?

I can't imagine a man really enjoying a book and reading it only once. - Letters of C.S. Lewis

I didn't go to religion to make me happy. I always knew a bottle of Port would do that. - God in the Dock

I sometimes wonder if all pleasures are not substitutes for joy. - Mere Christianity

If I find in myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world. - Mere Christianity

Imagine yourself as a living house. God comes in to rebuild that house... You thought you were going to be made into a decent little cottage: but He is building a palace. - Mere Christianity

It is a good rule after reading a new book, never to allow yourself another new one till you have read an old one in between. - Letters of C.S. Lewis

It is easier to pray for a bore than to go and see him. - Letters to Malcolm

Joy is the serious business of Heaven. - Letters to Malcolm

Look for yourself, and you will find in the long run only hatred, loneliness, despair, rage, ruin, and decay. But look for Christ and you will find Him, and with Him everything else thrown in. - Mere Christianity

Love is something more stern and splendid than mere kindness. - The Problem of Pain

No man knows how bad he is till he has tried very hard to be good. - Mere Christianity

No one ever told me that grief felt so like fear. - A Grief Observed

Since it is so likely that children will meet cruel enemies, let them at least have heard of brave knights and heroic courage. - On Stories

Some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again. - The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe

Suspicion often creates what it suspects. - The Screwtape Letters

The Christian does not think God will love us because we are good, but that God will make us good because He loves us. - Mere Christianity

The Son of God became a man to enable men to become sons of God. - Mere Christianity

The future is something which everyone reaches at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever he does, whoever he is. - The Screwtape Letters

The safest road to Hell is the gradual one—the gentle slope, soft underfoot, without sudden turnings, without milestones, without signposts. - The Screwtape Letters

The task of the modern educator is not to cut down jungles but to irrigate deserts. - The Abolition of Man

There are far, far better things ahead than any we leave behind. - Letters of C.S. Lewis

There are no ordinary people. You have never talked to a mere mortal. - The Weight of Glory

There are only two kinds of people in the end: those who say to God, "Thy will be done," and those to whom God says, in the end, "Thy will be done." - The Great Divorce

To be a Christian means to forgive the inexcusable because God has forgiven the inexcusable in you. - The Weight of Glory

To love at all is to be vulnerable. Love anything and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken. - The Four Loves

We are half-hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us. - The Weight of Glory

We are not necessarily doubting that God will do the best for us; we are wondering how painful the best will turn out to be. - Letters of C.S. Lewis

We laugh at honor and are shocked to find traitors in our midst. - The Abolition of Man

We may ignore, but we can nowhere evade, the presence of God. The world is crowded with Him. He walks everywhere incognito. - Letters to Malcolm

We never find out the strength of the evil impulse inside us until we try to fight it. - Mere Christianity

When we lose one blessing, another is often most unexpectedly given in its place. - Letters of C.S. Lewis

You can never get a cup of tea large enough or a book long enough to suit me. - Letters of C.S. Lewis
