Tell me thy company, and I'll tell thee what thou art.

The truth may be stretched thin, but it never breaks, and always surfaces above lies, as oil floats on water.

Too much sanity may be madness, and maddest of all: to see life as it is, and not as it should be!

Forewarned, forearmed; to be prepared is half the victory.

Love and desire are the spirit's wings for great deeds.

Honesty is the best policy.

Among the attributes of God, although they are all equal, mercy shines forth more brightly than justice.

Delay always breeds danger and to protract a great design is often to ruin it.

Facts are the enemy of truth.

One man scorned and covered with scars still strove to achieve the unattainable.

By a small sample we may judge of the whole piece.

Those who sing through sorrow are the best singers.

The journey is better than the inn.

Good sense is the foundation of all good manners.

All sorrows are less with bread.

Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.

The proof of the pudding is in the eating.

Where there is music there can be no evil.

Destiny guides our fortunes more favorably than we could have expected.

To be prepared is half the victory.

Let every man mind his own business.

The pen is the tongue of the mind.

Actions speak louder than words.

Take away the cause, and the effect will cease.

Every man is as God made him, aye, and often worse.

Hope springs eternal in the human breast.

Time ripens all things, no man is born wise.

The truth will out.

Good things, when short, are twice as good.

All comparisons are odious.

Liberty is one of the most precious gifts which Heaven hath bestowed on man.

Obligations incurred by benefits and favors received are fetters which hamper the free-born soul.

Happy is he to whom Heaven hath sent a morsel of bread, for which he is obliged to none but Heaven itself.

Lay a bridge of silver for a flying enemy.

He that has skill should handle the quill.

There is no greater folly than to give way to despair.

Patience often falls to the ground when it is over-loaded with injuries.

The faults of the ass should not be laid on the pack-saddle.

When it rains let the shower fall upon my cloak.

The sin will cease when the temptation is removed.

The heart will not grieve for what the eye doth not perceive.

Proverbs are short maxims of human wisdom, the result of experience and observation, and are the gifts of ancient sages.

The conquered must be at the discretion of the conqueror.

It is easy to undertake, but more difficult to finish a thing.

Heaven knows the truth of all things.

Letters without virtue are like pearls on a dunghill.

There is no such thing in the world as fortune; nor do the events which fall out, whether good or evil, proceed from chance, but from the particular appointment of Heaven.

Every man is the maker of his own fortune.
