Is it not a pleasure to learn and practice what one has learned?

Is it not delightful to have friends coming from distant places?

Is he not a man of complete virtue who feels no discomposure though men may take no note of him?

Fine words and an insinuating appearance are seldom associated with true virtue.

I am not bothered by the fact that I am not understood. I am bothered when I do not know others.

At fifteen my heart was set on learning; at thirty I stood firm; at forty I had no more doubts; at fifty I knew the mandate of Heaven; at sixty my ear was obedient; at seventy I could follow my heart's desire without transgressing the norm.

He who learns but does not think is lost; he who thinks but does not learn is in great danger.

When you see a worthy person, think of equaling them; when you see an unworthy person, examine yourself.

The superior man is modest in his speech but exceeds in his actions.

To see what is right and not to do it is want of courage.

The gentleman is calm and at ease; the small man is always agitated.

Virtue is never solitary; it always has neighbors.

Do not impose on others what you yourself do not desire.

The superior man understands what is right; the inferior man understands what will sell.

By three methods we may learn wisdom: first, by reflection, which is noblest; second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.

To be able under all circumstances to practice five things constitutes perfect virtue: gravity, generosity of soul, sincerity, earnestness, and kindness.

The man of wisdom has no perplexities; the man of humanity has no anxiety; the man of courage has no fear.

When a country is well governed, poverty and a mean condition are things to be ashamed of. When a country is ill governed, riches and honor are things to be ashamed of.

He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all the stars turn towards it.

If you lead the people with correctness, who will dare not to be correct?

The superior man seeks within himself; the small man seeks from others.

Real knowledge is to know the extent of one's ignorance.

To go beyond is as wrong as to fall short.

The cautious seldom err.

Hold faithfulness and sincerity as first principles.

When we see men of worth, we should think of equaling them; when we see men of a contrary character, we should turn inwards and examine ourselves.

The superior man is distressed by his lack of ability.

Wealth and rank acquired through unrighteousness are to me as a floating cloud.

With coarse rice to eat, with water to drink, and my bent arm for a pillow, I have still joy in the midst of these things.

Learning without thought is labor lost; thought without learning is perilous.

The gentleman is not a utensil.

To study and not think is a waste. To think and not study is dangerous.

A youth, when at home, should be filial, and, abroad, respectful to his elders.

The superior man is easy to serve and difficult to please.

If a man has no humaneness, what has he to do with the rites?

The determined scholar and the man of virtue will not seek to live at the expense of injuring their virtue.

When you have faults, do not fear to abandon them.

The superior man is slow in his words and earnest in his conduct.

He who conquers himself is the mightiest warrior.

Respect yourself and others will respect you.

Silence is a true friend who never betrays.

Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.

Choose a job you love, and you will never have to work a day in your life.

Wherever you go, go with all your heart.

It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.

The strength of a nation derives from the integrity of the home.

Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves. - Attributed  

Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.

Everything has beauty, but not everyone sees it.

I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand.
