Our virtues are generally but disguised vices.

Self-love is the greatest of all flatterers.

Self-love is more ingenious than the most ingenious man in the world.

The duration of our passions is no more in our power than the duration of our life.

Passion often makes the cleverest man a fool, and often makes the greatest fools clever.

The passions are the only orators that always persuade.

We have all sufficient strength to endure the misfortunes of others.

We have more power than will; and it is often merely for an excuse that we say things are impossible.

We never desire ardently what we desire rationally.

Our distrust of another justifies his deceit.

It is more shameful to distrust our friends than to be deceived by them.

We easily forget our faults when they are known to ourselves alone.

There are few people who have the courage to appear as good as they really are.

We are so accustomed to disguise ourselves to others, that at last we become disguised to ourselves.

The desire of being thought clever often prevents our becoming so.

Nothing is so contagious as example, and we never do great good or great evil without producing the like in others.

The pleasure of love is in loving, and we are happier in the passion we feel than in that we inspire.

Absence diminishes mediocre passions and inflames great ones, as the wind extinguishes candles and fans fires.

We often forgive those who bore us, but we cannot forgive those whom we bore.

There is no disguise which can long conceal love where it exists, nor feign it where it does not.

Few people have enough wisdom to prefer useful criticism to treacherous praise.

A refusal of praise is a desire to be praised twice.

We would rather speak ill of ourselves than not talk about ourselves at all.

The greatest ambition has the least appearance of ambition when it seeks only to appear moderate.

A great many people mistake the love of life for the fear of death.

Hope and fear are inseparable.

We are often prevented from being natural by our desire to seem so.

The defects of the mind, like those of the face, grow worse as we grow old.

It is easier to know mankind in general than any individual man.

We always like those who admire us, and we do not always like those whom we admire.

There are people who would never have loved if they had never heard the word love.

The passions often beget their contrary.

The true way to be deceived is to believe oneself more clever than others.

Our virtues are most frequently only disguised vices.

We are sometimes less unhappy to be deceived by those we love than to be undeceived by them.

The greatest faults of men are found in their own character.

The art of knowing how to use moderate abilities often wins esteem and gives more reputation than real merit.

The desire of appearing clever often prevents our becoming so.

We have more strength than will; and it is often merely for an excuse that we say things are impossible.

The passions are the only advocates that always persuade.

The mind is always the dupe of the heart.

We should often be ashamed of our very best actions if the world understood all our motives.

There is no accident so unlucky, from which the clever man may not draw some advantage.

A man often believes himself a leader when he is only following his own desires.

Weakness of mind is more contrary to virtue than strength of passion.

We are all strong enough to bear the misfortunes of others.

It is not sufficient to have great qualities; we should also have the management of them.

What makes us so often dissatisfied with others is that we are generally dissatisfied with ourselves.
