The golden rule is that there are no golden rules.

There is only one religion, though there are a hundred versions of it. - Arms and the Man

He knows nothing and thinks he knows everything. That points clearly to a political career.

If you can't get rid of the skeleton in your closet, you'd best teach it to dance.

He who can, does. He who cannot, teaches. - Man and Superman

Marriage is popular because it combines the maximum of temptation with the maximum of opportunity. - Man and Superman

The man who listens to Reason is lost: Reason enslaves all whose minds are not strong enough to master her. - Man and Superman

Peace is not only better than war, but infinitely more arduous. - Heartbreak House

When a stupid man is doing something he is ashamed of, he always declares that it is his duty. - Caesar and Cleopatra

Fashions, after all, are only induced epidemics. - The Doctor's Dilemma

Take care to get what you like or you will be forced to like what you get.

A government which robs Peter to pay Paul can always depend on the support of Paul. - Everybody's Political What's What

People who say it cannot be done should not interrupt those who are doing it.

We are ashamed of everything that is real about us; ashamed of ourselves, of our relatives, of our incomes, of our accents, of our opinions, of our experience, just as we are ashamed of our naked skins. - Man and Superman

Success does not consist in never making mistakes but in never making the same one a second time.

Progress is impossible without change, and those who cannot change their minds cannot change anything.

Without art, the crudeness of reality would make the world unbearable.

Home is the girl's prison and the woman's workhouse. - Man and Superman

A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.

Beauty is all very well at first sight, but who ever looks at it when it has been in the house three days? - Man and Superman

A happy family is but an earlier heaven.

The worst sin towards our fellow creatures is not to hate them, but to be indifferent to them: that's the essence of inhumanity. - The Devil's Disciple

Gambling promises the poor what Property performs for the rich. - Man and Superman

As long as I have a want, I have a reason for living. Satisfaction is death. - Overruled

Nothing is ever done in this world until men are prepared to kill one another if it is not done. - Major Barbara

There is no love sincerer than the love of food. - Man and Superman

Dancing is a perpendicular expression of a horizontal desire.

Hell is full of musical amateurs: music is the brandy of the damned. - Man and Superman

We have no more right to consume happiness without producing it than to consume wealth without producing it. - Candida

A man who has no office to go to, I don't care who he is, is a trial of which you can have no conception. - The Irrational Knot

Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.

Liberty means responsibility. That is why most men dread it. - Man and Superman

Beware of false knowledge; it is more dangerous than ignorance.

The English have no respect for their language, and will not teach their children to speak it. It is impossible for an Englishman to open his mouth, without making some other Englishman despise him. - Pygmalion

If you go to Heaven without being naturally qualified for it, you will not enjoy yourself there. - Man and Superman

Revolutions have never lightened the burden of tyranny: they have only shifted it to another shoulder. - Man and Superman

Do not do unto others as you would that they should do unto you. Their tastes may not be the same. - Man and Superman

What really flatters a man is that you think him worth flattering. - John Bull's Other Island

The fickleness of the women I love is only equaled by the infernal constancy of the women who love me. - The Philanderer

The secret of being miserable is to have leisure to bother about whether you are happy or not. The cure for it is occupation. - Parents and Children

When two people are under the influence of the most violent, most insane, most delusive, and most transient of passions, they are required to swear that they will remain in that excited, abnormal, and exhausting condition continuously until death do them part. - Getting Married

It's all that the young can do for the old, to shock them and keep them up to date. - Fanny's First Play

You see things; and you say, "Why?" But I dream things that never were; and I say, "Why not?" - Back to Methuselah

Self-sacrifice enables us to sacrifice other people without blushing. - Man and Superman

There is nothing so bad or so good that you will not find an Englishman doing it; but you will never find an Englishman in the wrong. He does everything on principle. He fights you on patriotic principles; he robs you on business principles; he enslaves you on imperial principles. - The Man of Destiny

Though all society is founded on intolerance, all improvement is founded on tolerance. - Saint Joan

Reminiscences make one feel so deliciously aged and sad. - The Irrational Knot

A moderately honest man with a moderately faithful wife, moderate drinkers both, in a moderately healthy house: that is the true middle class unit. - Man and Superman

Democracy substitutes election by the incompetent many for appointment by the corrupt few. - Man and Superman

A lifetime of happiness! No man alive could bear it: it would be hell on earth. - Man and Superman

An Englishman thinks he is moral when he is only uncomfortable. - Man and Superman

Assassination is the extreme form of censorship. - The Rejected Statement

Imagination is the beginning of creation. You imagine what you desire, you will what you imagine and at last you create what you will.

The more things a man is ashamed of, the more respectable he is. - Man and Superman

The reasonable man adapts himself to the world: the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man. - Man and Superman
