A dead thing can go with the stream, but only a living thing can go against it.

Fallacies do not cease to be fallacies because they become fashions.

I believe what really happens in history is this: the old man is always wrong; and the young people are always wrong about what is wrong with him. The practical form it takes is this: that, while the old man may stand by some stupid custom, the young man always attacks it with some theory that turns out to be equally stupid.

To have a right to do a thing is not at all the same as to be right in doing it.

I agree with the realistic Irishman who said he preferred to prophesy after the event.
Hey, wait a second…

Progress should mean that we are always changing the world to fit the vision, instead we are always changing the vision.

The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him.

Once abolish the God, and the government becomes the God.

If you attempt an actual argument with a modern paper of opposite politics, you will have no answer except slanging or silence.

The Bible tells us to love our neighbors, and also to love our enemies; probably because they are generally the same people.

There are those who hate Christianity and call their hatred an all-embracing love for all religions.

It has been often said, very truly, that religion is the thing that makes the ordinary man feel extraordinary; it is an equally important truth that religion is the thing that makes the extraordinary man feel ordinary.

It's not that we don't have enough scoundrels to curse; it's that we don't have enough good men to curse them.

Art, like morality, consists of drawing the line somewhere.

We are learning to do a great many clever things. The next great task will be to learn not to do them.

The difficulty of explaining 'why I am a Catholic' is that there are ten thousand reasons all amounting to one reason: that Catholicism is true.

A Catholic is a person who has plucked up courage to face the incredible and inconceivable idea that something else may be wiser than he is.

The riddles of God are more satisfying than the solutions of man.

To love means loving the unlovable. To forgive means pardoning the unpardonable. Faith means believing the unbelievable. Hope means hoping when everything seems hopeless.

There are two ways to get enough. One is to continue to accumulate more and more. The other is to desire less.

The riddles of God are more satisfying than the solutions of man. – Introduction to The Book of Job.

Just going to church doesn’t make you a Christian any more than standing in your garage makes you a car.

One sees great things from the valley; only small things from the peak.

Poets do not go mad; but chess-players do. Mathematicians go mad, and cashiers; but creative artists very seldom. I am not, as will be seen, in any sense attacking logic: I only say that this danger does lie in logic, not in imagination. – Orthodoxy

Education is simply the soul of a society as it passes from one generation to another.

When it comes to life the critical thing is whether you take things for granted or take them with gratitude.

Impartiality is a pompous name for indifference which is an elegant name for ignorance.

Let a man walk ten miles steadily on a hot summer’s day along a dusty English road, and he will soon discover why beer was invented.

"I owe my success to having listened respectfully to the very best advice, and then going away and doing the exact opposite."

As long as you have mystery you have health; when you destroy mystery you create morbidity. – Orthodoxy

An inconvenience is an adventure wrongly considered.

A woman uses her intelligence to find reasons to support her intuition.

Art consists of limitation. The most beautiful part of every picture is the frame.

A dead thing can go with the stream, but only a living thing can go against it. – The Everlasting Man

Courage is almost a contradiction in terms. It means a strong desire to live taking the form of readiness to die.

It has been often said, very truly, that religion is the thing that makes the ordinary man feel extraordinary; it is an equally important truth that religion is the thing that makes the extraordinary man feel ordinary. – Charles Dickens: A Critical Study

Certain new theologians dispute original sin, which is the only part of Christian theology which can really be proved. – Orthodoxy

Theology is only thought applied to religion. – The New Jerusalem

One of the chief uses of religion is that it makes us remember our coming from darkness, the simple fact that we are created. – The Boston Sunday Post

Idolatry is committed, not merely by setting up false gods, but also by setting up false devils; by making men afraid of war or alcohol, or economic law, when they should be afraid of spiritual corruption and cowardice. – Illustrated London News

Humility is the mother of giants. One sees great things from the valley; only small things from the peak. – The Innocence of Father Brown

The word "good" has many meanings. For example, if a man were to shoot his grandmother at a range of five hundred yards, I should call him a good shot, but not necessarily a good man.

Fallacies do not cease to be fallacies because they become fashions.

To have a right to do a thing is not at all the same as to be right in doing it.

It is the test of a good religion whether you can joke about it. – All Things Considered

Drink because you are happy, but never because you are miserable.

The simplification of anything is always sensational.
