Whatever you can do or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power and magic in it. - Faust  

One ought, every day at least, to hear a little song, read a good poem, see a fine picture, and, if it were possible, to speak a few reasonable words. - Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship  

All theory, dear friend, is gray, but the golden tree of actual life springs ever green. - Faust  

Just trust yourself and you'll learn the art of living. - Faust  

Man will err while yet he strives. - Faust  

Age does not make us childish, as men tell; it merely finds us children still at heart. - Faust  

The deed is all, the glory nothing. - Faust  

He who does not know foreign languages knows nothing of his own. - Maxims and Reflections  

Doubt grows with knowledge. - Maxims and Reflections  

Superstition is the poetry of life. - Maxims and Reflections  

Behavior is a mirror in which every one displays his own image. - Maxims and Reflections  

If you treat an individual as he is, he will remain how he is; but if you treat him as if he were what he ought to be and could be, he will become what he ought to be and could be. - Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship  

We are shaped and fashioned by what we love. - Letters  

There are only two lasting bequests we can give our children—one is roots, the other, wings.  

None are so hopelessly enslaved as those who falsely believe they are free. - Elective Affinities  

Instruction does much, but encouragement everything. - Letter to A. F. Oeser  

Talent develops in quiet places, character in the full current of human life. - Torquato Tasso  

What is your duty? What the day demands. - Maxims and Reflections  

I call architecture frozen music.  

Everything clever has been thought of before. We must try to think it again. - Maxims and Reflections  

How can a man come to know himself? Never by thinking, but by doing. - Maxims and Reflections  

Tell me with whom you associate, and I will tell you who you are. - Maxims and Reflections  

Wisdom lies only in truth. - Maxims and Reflections  

A man is really alive only when he delights in the good-will of others. - Maxims and Reflections  

Everything that frees our spirit without giving us control of ourselves is ruinous. - Maxims and Reflections  

When a man is old he must do more than when he was young. - Maxims and Reflections  

The right man is the one who seizes the moment.  

No one would talk much in society if he knew how often he misunderstands others. - Elective Affinities  

We can't form our children on our own concepts; we must take them and love them as God gives them to us. - Hermann und Dorothea  

Men show their characters in nothing more clearly than in what they think laughable. - Maxims and Reflections  

There is nothing worse than active ignorance. - Maxims and Reflections  

Love is an ideal thing, marriage a real thing; a confusion of the real with the ideal never goes unpunished.  

A useless life is an early death.  

This is the true measure of love: when we believe that we alone can love, that no one could ever have loved so before us, and that no one will ever love in the same way after us.  

I love those who yearn for the impossible.  

Life teaches us to be less harsh with ourselves and with others.  

A correct answer is like an affectionate kiss.  

He alone is great and happy who fills his own station of independence, and has neither to command nor to obey.  

One lives but once in the world. - Clavigo  

Investigate what is, and not what pleases.  

Love does not dominate; it cultivates.  

Nothing should be treasured more highly than the value of the day.  

Who is the happiest of men? He who values the merits of others, and in their pleasure takes joy, even as though it were his own.  

The soul of man is like water: from Heaven it comes, to Heaven it rises, and then returns to earth, forever alternating.  

To act is easy, to think is hard; to act according to our thought is the most difficult of all.  

The excellent is rarely found, more rarely valued.  

Experience is nothing other than experiencing what we do not wish to experience.  

The Eternal Feminine draws us on high. - Faust  

All that is transitory is but a parable. - Faust  

More light! - Last words
