We have just enough religion to make us hate, but not enough to make us love one another.

How is it possible to expect that mankind will take advice, when they will not so much as take warning?

A wise man endeavors, by considering all circumstances, to make conjectures and form conclusions.

Positiveness is a good quality for preachers and orators, because he that would obtrude his thoughts and reasons upon a multitude, will convince others the more, as he appears convinced himself.

Party is the madness of many, for the gain of a few.

To endeavor to work upon the vulgar with fine sense, is like attempting to hew blocks with a razor.

When a true genius appears in the world, you may know him by this sign, that the dunces are all in confederacy against him.

A wise man should consider that health is the greatest of human blessings.

Vision is the art of seeing things invisible.

Every man desires to live long, but no man wishes to be old.

May you live all the days of your life.

We have just religion enough to make us hate, but not enough to make us love one another.

The reason why so few marriages are happy is, because young ladies spend their time in making nets, not cages.

A very little wit is valued in a woman, as a great deal of folly is in a man.

Laws are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let wasps and hornets break through.

Good manners is the art of making those people easy with whom we converse.

A lie is a sort of cowardice.

A man never should be ashamed to own he has been in the wrong, which is but saying, in other words, that he is wiser today than he was yesterday.

The sight of a drunkard is a greater disgrace to a nation than that of a beggar.

No wise man ever wished to be younger.

Books, the children of the brain.

Censure is the tax a man pays to the public for being eminent.

A fool is a man who thinks he is wise.

Satire is a sort of glass, wherein beholders do generally discover everybody's face but their own.

The greatest inventions are those which teach men how to live.

The want of a thing is the cause of its value.

A man should never be ashamed to own he has been in the wrong.

Most sorts of diversion in men, children, and other animals, are an imitation of fighting.

I never wonder to see men wicked, but I often wonder to see them not ashamed.

A wise man is never less alone than when he is alone.

A young healthy child well nursed is at a year old a most delicious, nourishing, and wholesome food.

I shall now therefore humbly propose my own thoughts, which I hope will not be liable to the least objection.

A child will make two dishes at an entertainment for friends.

Infant's flesh will be in season throughout the year.

I have reckoned upon a medium that a child just born will weigh twelve pounds.

I grant this food will be somewhat dear, and therefore very proper for landlords.

The landlords, as they have already devoured most of the parents, seem to have the best title to the children.

I have no children, by which I can propose to get a single penny.

I have been assured by a very knowing American of my acquaintance in London.

I do therefore humbly offer it to public consideration.

I have not the least personal interest in endeavoring to promote this necessary work.

A wise man may be deceived by another wise man.

The power of fortune is confessed only by the miserable.

The common fluency of speech in many men and most women is owing to a scarcity of matter, and a scarcity of words.

The greatest doctors in the world are Doctor Diet, Doctor Quiet, and Doctor Merryman.

The stoical scheme of supplying our wants by lopping off our desires, is like cutting off our feet when we want shoes.

