The Tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao. The name that can be named is not the eternal name.

When people see some things as beautiful, other things become ugly. When people see some things as good, other things become bad.

Being and non-being create each other. Difficult and easy support each other.

The Master acts without doing anything and teaches without saying anything.

The Way is empty, yet use will not drain it.

Heaven and earth are ruthless, and treat the myriad creatures as straw dogs.

The highest good is like water. Water benefits all things and does not compete.

In dwelling, live close to the ground. In thinking, keep to the simple.

When your work is done, withdraw. This is the Way of Heaven.

Thirty spokes share the wheel's hub; it is the center hole that makes it useful.

Shape clay into a vessel; it is the space within that makes it useful.

We join spokes together in a wheel, but it is the center hole that makes the wagon move.

The five colors blind the eye. The five tones deafen the ear.

Favor and disgrace cause fear.

Look, it cannot be seen—it is beyond form. Listen, it cannot be heard—it is beyond sound.

The ancient Masters were profound and subtle. Their wisdom was unfathomable.

Empty yourself of everything. Let the mind rest at peace.

The best leaders are those the people hardly know exist.

When the Master governs, the people are hardly aware that he exists.

When his work is done, the people say, "Amazing: we did it, all by ourselves!"

When the great Tao is forgotten, kindness and morality arise.

Give up sainthood, renounce wisdom, and it will be a hundred times better for everyone.

Stop thinking, and end your problems.

The Tao is forever undefined. Small though it is in the unformed state, it cannot be grasped.

Knowing others is intelligence; knowing yourself is true wisdom.

Mastering others is strength; mastering yourself is true power.

If you realize that you have enough, you are truly rich.

He who stays where he is endures. To die but not to perish is to be eternally present.

The great Way is easy, yet people prefer the side paths.

He who knows does not speak. He who speaks does not know.

The softest things in the world overcome the hardest things in the world.

A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.

Do the difficult things while they are easy and do the great things while they are small.

Prevent trouble before it arises. Put things in order before they exist.

A tree as great as a man's embrace springs from a small shoot.

A terrace nine stories high begins with a pile of earth.

The soft overcomes the hard; the gentle overcomes the rigid.

What is firmly established cannot be uprooted. What is firmly grasped cannot slip away.

Cultivate Virtue in yourself, and Virtue will be real.

The wise man is one who knows what he does not know.

Knowing that you do not know is the best.

True words are not beautiful; beautiful words are not true.

A good man does not argue; he who argues is not a good man.

The more he does for others, the happier he is. The more he gives to others, the wealthier he is.

The Tao of heaven is to take from those who have too much and give to those who have too little.

Nothing in the world is as soft and yielding as water. Yet for dissolving the hard and inflexible, nothing can surpass it.

Everyone under heaven recognizes the soft as superior to the hard.

Failure is an opportunity. If you blame someone else, there is no end to the blame.

Therefore the Master is content to serve as an example and not to impose her will.

Act without expectation.
