My life has been filled with terrible misfortune; most of which never happened.

I am myself the matter of my book.

The most manifest sign of wisdom is a continual cheerfulness.

Philosophy is that which instructs us to live.

To know by rote, is no knowledge.

The conduct of our lives is the true mirror of our doctrine.

Knowledge is not so absolutely necessary as judgment.

Nothing noble can be performed without danger.

The thing in the world I am most afraid of is fear.

Premeditation of death is the premeditation of liberty.

Every day travels towards death; the last only arrives at it.

Death has us every moment by the throat.

Death is a part of you.

Light griefs can speak: deep sorrows are dumb.

Strong memory is commonly coupled with infirm judgment.

He who lives everywhere, lives nowhere.

Fortune will still be mistress of events.

They begin to teach us to live when we have almost done living.

We only labor to stuff the memory.

Things seem greater by imagination than they are in effect.

Whoever expects punishment already suffers it.

The reward of a thing well done is to have done it.

There is no reason that has not its contrary.

Children are amused with toys and men with words.

Idleness, the mother of corruption.

No man is free from speaking foolish things.

I speak truth, not so much as I would, but as much as I dare.

Age imprints more wrinkles in the mind than it does on the face.

He who fears he shall suffer, already suffers what he fears.

Laws do what they can, when they cannot do what they would.

What may be done to-morrow, may be done to-day.

Living well, which of all arts is the greatest.

Man can never be wise but by his own wisdom.

Great presumption to be so fond of one's own opinions.

We are masters of nothing but the will.

A good marriage would be between a blind wife and a deaf husband.

Living is slavery if the liberty of dying be wanting.

One door into life, but a hundred thousand ways out.

Wise man lives as long as he ought, not so long as he can.

The most voluntary death is the finest.

Silence, therefore, and modesty are very advantageous qualities.

Education ought to be carried on with a severe sweetness.

We take other men's knowledge and opinions upon trust.

Whosoever despises his own life, is always master.

The deadest deaths are the best.

Utility of living consists not in the length of days.

Things often appear greater to us at distance than near at hand.

I lay no great stress upon my opinions; or of others.

The most voluntary death is the finest.
