The reward of a thing well done is to have done it. - New England Reformers  

A little integrity is better than any career. - Behavior  

Trust thyself: every heart vibrates to that iron string. - Self-Reliance  

What is the hardest task in the world? To think. - Intellect  

I would study, I would know, I would admire forever. - The Divinity School Address  

Good criticism is very rare and always precious. - Conduct  

We are by nature observers, and thereby learners. This is our permanent state. - Love  

Fear always springs from ignorance. - The American Scholar  

Before we acquire great power we must acquire wisdom to use it well. - Demonology  

Love the day. - Behavior  

To think is to act. - Spiritual Laws  

A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines. - Self-Reliance  

We are always getting ready to live, but never living. - Journal, 12 April 1834  

Life wastes itself while we are preparing to live. - Prudence  

Life only avails, not the having lived. - Self-Reliance  

Whatever limits us, we call Fate. - Fate  

Our age is retrospective. It builds the sepulchers of the fathers. - Nature  

Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm. - Circles  

Hitch your wagon to a star. - Society and Solitude  

Art is a jealous mistress. - The Conduct of Life  

Nothing astonishes men so much as common sense and plain dealing. - Essays  

Don't say things. What you are stands over you the while, and thunders so that I cannot hear what you say to the contrary. - Letters and Social Aims  

The only reward of virtue is virtue; the only way to have a friend is to be one. - Friendship  

An institution is the lengthened shadow of one man. - Self-Reliance  

Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist. - Self-Reliance  

To be great is to be misunderstood. - Self-Reliance  

Nothing can bring you peace but yourself. - Self-Reliance  

Always do what you are afraid to do. - Heroism  

It is easy in the world to live after the world's opinion; it is easy in solitude to live after our own; but the great man is he who in the midst of the crowd keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of solitude. - Self-Reliance  

Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us, or we find it not. - Essays  

I hate quotations. Tell me what you know. - Journal, May 1849  

We will walk on our own feet; we will work with our own hands; we will speak our own minds. - The American Scholar  

Finish each day and be done with it. You have done what you could.  

For every minute you are angry you lose sixty seconds of happiness.  

It is one of the blessings of old friends that you can afford to be stupid with them.  

I cannot remember the books I've read any more than the meals I have eaten; even so, they have made me.  

Adopt the pace of nature: her secret is patience.  

People only see what they are prepared to see.  

He who is not everyday conquering some fear has not learned the secret of life.  

For everything you have missed, you have gained something else, and for everything you gain, you lose something else.  

It is not length of life, but depth of life.  

In skating over thin ice our safety is in our speed.  

Nature never wears a mean appearance. - Nature  

Give me health and a day, and I will make the pomp of emperors ridiculous. - Nature  

The ancestor of every action is a thought. - Spiritual Laws  

Every natural fact is a symbol of some spiritual fact. - Nature  

The creation of a thousand forests is in one acorn. - History  

Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.  

The first wealth is health. - The Conduct of Life  

What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.
