It is not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a great deal of it. - On the Shortness of Life  

While we are postponing, life speeds by. - Letters to Lucilius 1  

We suffer more often in imagination than in reality. - Letters to Lucilius 13  

It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves more, that is poor. - Letters to Lucilius 2  

If a man knows not to which port he sails, no wind is favorable. - Letters to Lucilius 71  

Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life. - Letters to Lucilius 1  

True happiness is to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence upon the future. - On the Happy Life  

Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body. - On Providence  

He who is brave is free. - Letters to Lucilius  

No man was ever wise by chance. - Letters to Lucilius 76  

A gem cannot be polished without friction, nor a man perfected without trials. - On Providence  

Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity.  

As long as you live, keep learning how to live. - Letters to Lucilius 76  

It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare; it is because we do not dare that things are difficult. - Letters to Lucilius  

The greatest remedy for anger is delay. - On Anger  

He is most powerful who has power over himself. - Letters to Lucilius  

To be everywhere is to be nowhere. - Letters to Lucilius 2  

Associate with people who are likely to improve you. - Letters to Lucilius  

Hang on to your youthful enthusiasms, you'll be able to use them better when you’re older. - Letters to Lucilius  

Until we have begun to go without them, we fail to realize how unnecessary many things are. - Letters to Lucilius 123  

He suffers more than necessary who suffers before it is necessary. - Letters to Lucilius 13  

Enjoy present pleasures in such a way as not to injure future ones. - Letters to Lucilius  

The mind that is anxious about future events is miserable. - Letters to Lucilius  

Life is long if you know how to use it. - On the Shortness of Life  

You act like mortals in all that you fear, and like immortals in all that you desire. - On the Shortness of Life  

All cruelty springs from weakness. - On Anger  

Religion is regarded by the common people as true, by the wise as false, and by the rulers as useful.  

There is no easy way from the earth to the stars. - Hercules Furens  

As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters. - Letters to Lucilius  

What progress, you ask, have I made? I have begun to be a friend to myself. - Letters to Lucilius  

If what you have seems insufficient to you, then though you possess the world, you will yet be miserable. - Letters to Lucilius  

The greatest obstacle to living is expectancy, which hangs upon tomorrow and loses today. - On the Shortness of Life  

Regard a friend as loyal, and you will make him loyal. - Letters to Lucilius  

Fire tests gold, adversity tests strong men. - On Providence  

Sometimes even to live is an act of courage. - Letters to Lucilius 78  

The whole future lies in uncertainty: live immediately. - On the Shortness of Life  

Nothing is so bitter that a calm mind cannot find comfort in it. - On Tranquillity of Mind  

A great fortune is a great slavery. - To Polybius on Consolation  

Old age is an incurable disease. - Letters to Lucilius  

He who boasts of his ancestry praises the merits of another. - Hercules Furens  

There are more things that frighten us than injure us, and we suffer more in imagination than in reality. - Letters to Lucilius 13  

The hour which gives us life begins to take it away. - Hercules Furens  

This body is not a home but an inn, and that only briefly. - Letters to Lucilius  

Anyone can stop a man's life, but no one his death; a thousand doors open on to it. - Phoenissae  

I shall never be ashamed of citing a bad author if the line is good. - On Tranquillity of Mind  

Man is a social animal. - On Benefits  

Sadness usually results from one of the following causes, either when a man does not succeed, or is ashamed of his success. - On Tranquillity of Mind  

Anger, if not restrained, is frequently more hurtful to us than the injury that provokes it. - On Anger  

A good conscience fears no witness, but a guilty conscience is solicitous even in solitude.  

Be silent as to services you have rendered, but speak of favors you have received.
