The unexamined life is not worth living.  

I know that I know nothing.  

Wonder is the beginning of wisdom.  

An honest man is always a child.  

Be as you wish to seem.  

The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing.  

He is richest who is content with the least.  

False words are not only evil in themselves, but they infect the soul with evil.  

To find yourself, think for yourself.  

The greatest way to live with honor in this world is to be what we pretend to be.  

Education is the kindling of a flame, not the filling of a vessel.  

Prefer knowledge to wealth, for the one is transitory, the other perpetual.  

By all means marry; if you get a good wife, you'll become happy; if you get a bad one, you'll become a philosopher.  

There is only one good, knowledge, and one evil, ignorance.  

I cannot teach anybody anything. I can only make them think.  

Be slow to fall into friendship, but when you are in, continue firm and constant.  

The greatest of all mysteries is man himself.  

Death may be the greatest of all human blessings.  

If you don't get what you want, you suffer; if you get what you don't want, you suffer.  

No man has the right to be an amateur in the matter of physical training.  

Contentment is natural wealth; luxury is artificial poverty.  

The hottest love has the coldest end.  

Once made equal to man, woman becomes his superior.  

Our prayers should be for blessings in general, for God knows best what is good for us.  

Beauty is a short-lived tyranny.  

Let him that would move the world first move himself.  

The envious person grows lean with the fatness of their neighbor.  

From the deepest desires often come the deadliest hate.  

He who is not contented with what he has would not be contented with what he would like to have.  

Employ your time in improving yourself by other men's writings, so that you shall gain easily what others have labored hard for.  

Be of good cheer about death, and know that this one thing is true, that no evil can happen to a good man, either in life or after death.  

The nearest way to glory is to strive to be what you wish to be thought to be.  

Ordinary people seem not to realize that those who really apply themselves in the right way to philosophy are directly and of their own accord preparing themselves for dying and death.  

A system of morality which is based on relative emotional values is a mere illusion, a thoroughly vulgar conception which has nothing sound in it and nothing true.  

The misuse of language induces evil in the soul.  

Think not those faithful who praise all your words and actions, but those who kindly reprove your faults.  

Remember that there is nothing stable in human affairs; therefore avoid undue elation in prosperity, or undue depression in adversity.  

The beginning of wisdom is the definition of terms.  

Not life, but good life, is to be chiefly valued.  

I was really too honest a man to be a politician and live.  

My advice to you is get married: if you find a good wife you'll be happy; if not, you'll become a philosopher.  

The soul, like the body, takes its own nourishment by exercise.  

One should never do wrong in return, nor mistreat any man, no matter how one has been mistreated by him.  

Virtue does not come from money, but from virtue comes money and every other good of man, public as well as private.  

I am not an Athenian or a Greek, but a citizen of the world.  

The children now love luxury; they have bad manners, contempt for authority; they show disrespect for elders and love chatter in place of exercise.  

Beware the barrenness of a busy life.  

Living well and beautifully and justly are all one thing.  

No one does wrong voluntarily.  

The hour of departure has arrived, and we go our ways—I to die, and you to live. Which is better God only knows.
