To be, or not to be: that is the question. - Hamlet, Act 3, Scene 1  

All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players. - As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 7  

Romeo, Romeo! wherefore art thou Romeo? - Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 2  

Now is the winter of our discontent. - Richard III, Act 1, Scene 1  

Is this a dagger which I see before me, the handle toward my hand? - Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 1  

The lady doth protest too much, methinks. - Hamlet, Act 3, Scene 2  

Beware the ides of March. - Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 2  

Get thee to a nunnery. - Hamlet, Act 3, Scene 1  

Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? Thou art more lovely and more temperate. - Sonnet 18  

Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown. - Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 1  

The course of true love never did run smooth. - A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 1  

Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind, and therefore is winged Cupid painted blind. - A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 1  

My bounty is as boundless as the sea, my love as deep; the more I give to thee, the more I have, for both are infinite. - Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 2  

Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, creeps in this petty pace from day to day. - Macbeth, Act 5, Scene 5  

Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player that struts and frets his hour upon the stage and then is heard no more. - Macbeth, Act 5, Scene 5  

If you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge? - The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 1  

Be not afraid of greatness. Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them. - Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 5  

We know what we are, but know not what we may be. - Hamlet, Act 4, Scene 5  

Sweet are the uses of adversity, which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, wears yet a precious jewel in his head. - As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 1  

Our doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt. - Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 4  

Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice. - Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 3  

Neither a borrower nor a lender be; for loan oft loses both itself and friend, and borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry. - Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 3  

This above all: to thine own self be true. - Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 3  

The evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones. - Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 2  

But, for my own part, it was Greek to me. - Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 2  

Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once. - Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 2  

We are such stuff as dreams are made on, and our little life is rounded with a sleep. - The Tempest, Act 4, Scene 1  

There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamed of in your philosophy. - Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 5  

Though this be madness, yet there is method in 't. - Hamlet, Act 2, Scene 2  

All that glisters is not gold. - The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 7  

The quality of mercy is not strained. - The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 1  

Fair is foul, and foul is fair. - Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 1  

Something wicked this way comes. - Macbeth, Act 4, Scene 1  

Out, damned spot! out, I say! - Macbeth, Act 5, Scene 1  

What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet. - Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 2  

Parting is such sweet sorrow. - Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 2  

A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse! - Richard III, Act 5, Scene 4  

The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves. - Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 2  

Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears. - Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 2  

Et tu, Brute? - Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 1  

O, beware, my lord, of jealousy; it is the green-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on. - Othello, Act 3, Scene 3  

How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child! - King Lear, Act 1, Scene 4  

Nothing will come of nothing. - King Lear, Act 1, Scene 1  

Love is not love which alters when it alteration finds. - Sonnet 116  

Let me not to the marriage of true minds admit impediments. - Sonnet 116  

So long as men can breathe or eyes can see, so long lives this, and this gives life to thee. - Sonnet 18  

When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes. - Sonnet 29  

The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool. - As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 1  

Brevity is the soul of wit. - Hamlet, Act 2, Scene 2  

The better part of valor is discretion. - Henry IV, Part 1, Act 5, Scene 4
