Then am I a happy fly, If I live, Or if I die. - Songs of Experience

Every tear from every eye Becomes a babe in Eternity. - Auguries of Innocence

Those who restrain desire, do so because theirs is weak enough to be restrained. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The ancient Poets animated all sensible objects with Gods or Geniuses. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

And we are put on earth a little space, That we may learn to bear the beams of love. - Songs of Innocence

The child's toys and the old man's reasons Are the fruits of the two seasons. - Auguries of Innocence

He who binds to himself a joy Does the winged life destroy. - Songs of Experience

Little Lamb who made thee? - Songs of Innocence

When the sun rises, do you not see a round disk of fire somewhat like a gold coin? - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Opposition is true Friendship. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

What immortal hand or eye, Could frame thy fearful symmetry? - Songs of Experience

The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Damn braces: Bless relaxes. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Prisons are built with stones of Law, Brothels with bricks of Religion. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

For everything that lives is Holy. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

And I am black, but O! my soul is white. - Songs of Innocence

You never know what is enough unless you know what is more than enough. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The man who never alters his opinions is like standing water, and breeds reptiles of the mind. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The nakedness of woman is the work of God. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The tigers of wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Energy is Eternal Delight. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The busy bee has no time for sorrow. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

If the fool would persist in his folly he would become wise. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

To see a world in a grain of sand And a heaven in a wild flower. - Auguries of Innocence

What is now proved was once only imagined. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The sun descending in the west. - Songs of Innocence

The weak in courage is strong in cunning. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Hold infinity in the palm of your hand And eternity in an hour. - Auguries of Innocence

The bird a nest, the spider a web, man friendship. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The hours of folly are measured by the clock, but of wisdom no clock can measure. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Sooner murder an infant in its cradle than nurse unacted desires. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Thus men forgot that All deities reside in the human breast. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

If the doors of perception were cleansed every thing would appear to man as it is, Infinite. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The pride of the peacock is the glory of God. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

He who desires but acts not, breeds pestilence. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The Prophets Isaiah and Ezekiel dined with me, and I asked them how they dared so roundly to assert that God spoke to them. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

The wrath of the lion is the wisdom of God. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

A horse misused upon the road Calls to Heaven for human blood. - Auguries of Innocence

A robin redbreast in a cage Puts all Heaven in a rage. - Auguries of Innocence

A dog stared at his master's gate Predicts the ruin of the state. - Auguries of Innocence

The vision of Christ that thou dost see Is my vision's greatest enemy. - The Everlasting Gospel

I have no name I am but two days old. - Songs of Innocence

Little Lamb I'll tell thee! He is called by thy name, For he calls himself a Lamb. - Songs of Innocence

Tiger Tiger, burning bright, In the forests of the night. - Songs of Experience

He who kisses the joy as it flies Lives in eternity's sunrise. - Songs of Experience

Improvement makes straight roads, but the crooked roads without Improvement are roads of Genius. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Without Contraries is no progression. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell

Exuberance is Beauty. - The Marriage of Heaven and Hell
