Once upon a time, I, Zhuang Zhou, dreamed I was a butterfly. Now I do not know whether I was then a man dreaming I was a butterfly, or whether I am now a butterfly, dreaming I am a man.

Great wisdom is generous; petty wisdom is contentious.

We cling to our own point of view, as though everything depended on it. Yet our opinions have no permanence; like autumn and winter, they gradually pass away.

Whether you point to a little stalk or a great pillar, the Way makes them all into one.

How do I know that enjoying life is not a delusion? How do I know that in hating death we are not like people who got lost in early childhood and do not know the way home?

The Perfect Man uses his mind like a mirror—going after nothing, welcoming nothing, responding but not storing.

You cannot speak of ocean to a well-frog—the creature of a narrower sphere. You cannot speak of ice to a summer insect—the creature of a season.

A frog in a well cannot conceive of the ocean.

The fish trap exists because of the fish; once you’ve gotten the fish, you can forget the trap. The rabbit snare exists because of the rabbit; once you’ve gotten the rabbit, you can forget the snare. Words exist because of meaning; once you’ve gotten the meaning, you can forget the words.

Where can I find a man who has forgotten words so I can have a word with him.

Everyone knows the usefulness of the useful, but no one knows the usefulness of the useless.

The petty thief is imprisoned but the big thief becomes a feudal lord.

Only he who has no use for the empire is fit to be entrusted with it.

Human life is limited, but knowledge is limitless. To drive the limited in pursuit of the limitless is fatal.

Take care of your body, then the rest will automatically become stronger.

Cherish that which is within you, and shut off that which is without; for much knowledge is a curse.

Easy is right. Begin right and you are easy. Continue easy and you are right. The right way to go easy is to forget the right way, and forget that the going is easy.

The sage embraces things. Ordinary men discriminate among them and parade their discriminations before others.

Those who discriminate fail to see.

Do not struggle. Go with the flow of things, and you will find yourself at one with the mysterious unity of the Universe.

The wise man knows that it is better to sit on the banks of a remote mountain stream than to be emperor of the whole world.

Do not seek fame. Do not make plans. Do not be absorbed by activities. Do not think that you know.

Be aware of all that is and dwell in the infinite. Wander where there is no path.

Be all that heaven gave you, but act as though you have received nothing. Be empty, that is all.

When an archer shoots for enjoyment, he has all his skill; when he shoots for a brass buckle, he gets nervous; when he shoots for a prize of gold, he begins to see two targets.

Life comes from the earth and life returns to the earth.

In the Northern Ocean there is a fish, the name of which is Kun. It changes into a bird with the name of Peng.

The knowledge of that which is small does not reach to that which is great; the experience of a few years does not reach to that of many.

The Perfect man has no thought of self; the Spirit-like man, none of merit; the Sagely-minded man, none of fame.

You have a large tree and are troubled because it is of no use—why do you not plant it in a tract where there is nothing else.

You can’t discuss the ocean with a well frog—he’s limited by the space he lives in.

Men of the world who value the Way all turn to books. But books are nothing more than words.

Words have value; what is of value in words is meaning. Meaning has something it is pursuing, but the thing that it is pursuing cannot be put into words.

You have only to rest in inaction and things will transform themselves.

Smash your form and body, spit out hearing and eyesight, forget you are a thing among other things, and you may join in great unity with the deep and boundless.

How do I know that the dead don’t regret the way they used to cling to life.

Thus, the Sage uses various rights and wrongs to harmonize with others and yet remains at rest in the middle of Heaven the Potter’s Wheel.

The Great Course is unproclaimed. Great demonstration uses no words.

Great Humanity is not humane. Great rectitude is not fastidious. Great courage is not invasive.

When the Course becomes explicit, it ceases to be the Course.

To know to stop where they cannot arrive by means of knowledge is the highest attainment.

Those who cannot do this will be destroyed on the lathe of Heaven.

Right is not right; so is not so. If right were really right it would differ so clearly from not right that there would be no need for argument.

After ten thousand generations there may be a great sage who will be able to explain it, a trivial interval equivalent to the passage from morning to night.

The great bird rises on the wind to a height of a thousand miles.

What does it see from on high there in the blue.

I dreamed I was a butterfly, fluttering hither and thither, to all intents and purposes a butterfly.

Between a man and a butterfly there is necessarily a distinction. The transition is called the transformation of things.

Flow with whatever may happen and let your mind be free. Stay centered by accepting whatever you are doing.

Happiness is the absence of the striving for happiness.
